Introduction: There is a delicate balance between transparency and decision-making effectiveness, as transparency can be a double-edged weapon. Although it strengthens democracy and allows citizens and stakeholders to participate in the decision-making process, it may sometimes be hampered by increased complexity and delays.

On the one hand, opponents of transparency consider that they may lose effectiveness to decision-making processes, as they can cause delays in decision-making due to multiple public debates and intervention by external actors. On the other hand, proponents of transparency see it as enhancing legitimacy and accountability and ensuring that decisions are made in the public's interest.

Thus, there seems to be a need for an ideal balance between transparency and decision-making effectiveness, as transparency must be made available to citizens and stakeholders without unduly complicating or delaying decision-making processes. The solution may be to develop effective mechanisms to manage potential complexities and ensure smooth decision-making processes, while maintaining a high level of transparency and public participation.

Transparency is an important principle of democracy and accountability, but it may have negative implications for political decision-making. In the area of decision-making in particular, transparency may reduce the chances of reaching satisfactory agreements for all. There are several reasons for this:

First, transparency may reduce the efficiency of policy outcomes. When the public is aware of the details of the decision, decision makers may be pressured to maintain certain positions or claim additional benefits. This can complicate decision-making, increase its duration, and reduce its flexibility. This may lead to less quality, less comprehensive or less stable agreements.

Second, transparency may reduce decision makers' ability to reach agreement in the first place. When policy options are disclosed, the number of acceptable options for decision makers may decrease. This is because the public may reject, criticize, or oppose certain options. Consequently, it may become difficult for decision makers to move away from their initial positions or prejudice certain interests. This may reduce bargaining space and increase the risk of stalemate or failure.

Third, transparency may increase the use of public commitment strategies. These are strategies in which decision makers publicly and openly state their negotiating positions, with a view to strengthening their position or undermining others' position. This increases transaction costs resulting from changing, modifying, or reversing these positions. This reduces decision makers' incentives for cooperation, consensus, or central solutions. This increases the likelihood of conflict, division, or breakdown.

Based on these reasons, it can be said that transparency is not always useful. Sometimes they can be an obstacle or a danger to achieving the desired goals. There must therefore be a balance between transparency and confidentiality, and the appropriate level of transparency must be chosen for each case, depending on the circumstances (Hagemann, Franchino 2016, p.3).

Transparency: Academic definitions of transparency tend to focus on either its process or purpose, although with some overlap. For the former, the emphasis is on the degree to which an organization makes explicit information concerning aspects such as its decision-making processes, performance, and procedures. for example, define transparency as ‘the availability of information for navigating a large-scale social system.’

Although the definition of transparency has expanded over time and diversity of presentation, the definition of its concept remains the focus of many researchers and institutions. On the one hand, Hood's definition of transparency, which places emphasis on providing information from top to bottom, but without containing the necessary practical elements, such as ensuring privacy, is important but insufficient.

On the other hand, the European Union's definition of transparency is more detailed, focusing on citizens' right to know how and by whom European institutions prepare decisions, and this includes multiple aspects such as sources of funding and documents for the preparation of laws. However, the definition of the European Parliament is more specific, focusing on the role of transparency as a means of facilitating citizens' scrutiny of the activities of Parliament, especially with regard to its legislative work.

In addition, the European Court of Auditors' Office points to the importance of transparency as a means of disclosing information about management and activities and disseminating audit results, thereby promoting the concept of good governance and accountability.

In short, the definition of transparency varies according to context and purpose, with each definition seeking to clarify the right to access information and its importance in ensuring transparency and accountability.

The European Union's decision-making studies indicate that there are several factors affecting the efficiency of these processes, including the distribution of preferences and voting rules. The majority vote is known to tend to take decisions faster than the unanimous rules (Golub, 2007).

The European Union has evolved over time, increasing the number of member States to 27, and the nature of legislative decision-making has changed with two chambers, leading researchers to explore the impact of these developments. Some studies have found that the European Parliament's involvement slows decision-making, even in cases where it has only an advisory role.

As for the number of Member States represented in the Council of Ministers, the evidence shows mixed. While some find that the enlargement of the European Union accelerates the decision-making process, others see it as slowing down, and there are those who find little impact.

Thus, it appears that multiple factors play a role in the efficiency of decision-making in the European Union, and understanding these factors can help improve decision-making processes and enhance administrative and political effectiveness within the European Union.

In addition to known factors affecting the European Union's decision-making processes, some studies focus on other manifestations of political complexity that are not linked to the number of member States in the Council of Ministers or the institutional role of the European Parliament (Dru ̈ ner et al. 2018).

For example, a study showed that long acquisitions depend not only on choosing one of the options available, but also on finding a solution at the initial stage. A study also noted that different forms of political disagreement had a strong impact on the duration of negotiations (Brandsma 2015).

In the same vein, a study has shown that stakeholders' participation in the legislative drafting phase could prolong decision-making processes, arguing that consultations increase the cost of transactions for subsequent negotiation, affecting the duration of legislative processes (Rasmussen and Toshkov 2013).

In addition, although transparency has not emerged as a direct determinant of decision-making, some studies suggest that decision-making processes can be influenced by the extent to which surveillance and social narratives of these processes exist within the Cabinet (Stasavage 2004). For example, some studies have suggested that processes that are surrounded by surveillance may take longer, while one has shown that the publication of votes and legislative records usually does not slow down decision-making (Hagemann and Franchino 2016).

It is important to note that these studies highlight the complexities of EU decision-making, which includes not only direct political factors, but also social and institutional aspects that play a role in shaping and impacting these processes.

There seems to be a strong belief among decision makers that transparency negatively affects decision-making efficiency. In this sense, they resist external pressure that seeks to increase levels of transparency, considering that institutions need "space for reflection" without external interference or pressure. But we must wonder whether this belief is based on concrete and scientific evidence? Does transparency actually affect decision-making, as decision makers believe?

On the other hand, the use of transparency can sometimes be strategic by decision makers, as it can be used as a means to engage in negotiations and accelerate them rather than slow them down. Thus, there seems to be a discrepancy in how transparency affects the decision-making process, and it cannot be asserted that it always affects negatively.

But in fact, to better understand the relationship between transparency and decision-making efficiency, more thorough research is needed. In fact, the relationship between them is very complex and demonstrates or denies how accurately and scientifically transparency affects. Through these studies, we can determine whether or not the beliefs among decision makers are correct and develop effective strategies to improve decision-making in the current context.

E-transparency: The increase in the provision of information about the EU's online operations, which track recent technological developments, has been reflected in the use of electronic transparency innovations. This shift towards online transparency shows the evolution of Internet access, with the proportion of citizens with Internet access increasing markedly. This shift is known as terms such as "computer-brokered transparency" and "ICT transparency" (Bannister and Connolly, 2012).

Electronic transparency according to Railiene (2015) is an application of the principles of public transparency using ICT. However, academic definitions of electronic transparency usually focus on specific aspects. Therefore, it is important that the definition of electronic transparency is designed in a way that captures all these entirely different features.

Through the compilation of academic research, the extent to which information provided by electronic transparency tools meets users' needs, especially with regard to completeness, ease of use and accuracy. Real-time and retroactive information can be distinguished, and a number of researchers, such as Heald (2006) and Heritier (2003), emphasize the importance of the public's access to information.

By accommodating the diverse features of academic literature, a comprehensive set of standards can be developed to define electronic transparency reasonably and appropriately. Table 1 summarizes the main features of transparency identified in academic literature, which can be applied to the European Union's electronic transparency tools.

Notably, this shift towards electronic transparency points to radical changes in how information is made available and accessible, a key to enhancing transparency and strengthening trust between Governments and citizens (Field 2017).

Electronic transparency is defined as online access to accurate, comprehensive, and timely information about a particular EU political process.

E-transparency is a broader framework related to e-government and e-democracy issues. E-government means the use of technology to provide government services and information, while e-democracy means the use of technology to enable citizens to participate in decision-making.

Electronic transparency is an important tool for the EU, providing an opportunity for the public to access information and understand the decision-making process. It also serves as a channel for citizenship participation in this process, where individuals can express their views and observations directly and effectively.

In addition, electronic transparency enhances the level of transparency and accountability in government work, where citizens can monitor the authorities' performance and demand accountability for their decisions and actions.

Thus, the importance of electronic transparency as an essential tool in promoting democracy and confidence-building between the Government and citizens of the European Union is demonstrated.

In terms of the views as to the primary purpose of e-transparency, the distinction between unelected officials and elected representatives was clear, as was the marked difference between the views of those operating inside the institutions and those campaigning from outside. Officials at both the EP and Commission took a view that the degree of transparency of the legislative process compares favorably to that in some member states. This suggests that it is only by direct comparison with the situation in member states that enhanced EU e-transparency tools can lead to legitimacy gains. Commission officials tended to assume a link between e-transparency and the EU’s legitimacy, although the linking mechanisms were not clear. In Curtin and Meijer’s exploration of the linkages between these ideas, they suggest that greater transparency leads to social acceptance of the policy-making structures and that this – in turn – leads to greater input legitimacy (Curtin and Meijer, 2006; Scharpf, 2009). For e-transparency, however, this social acceptance will only occur if there is a public appetite for utilizing the transparency tools in the first place. Expressed more simply, using e-transparency tools to increase the public visibility of EU processes will not lead to legitimacy gains unless there is sufficient public interest in the processes in the first place. Indeed, by focusing chiefly on the provision of legislative transparency – often technical and requiring some understanding of the EU’s institutional workings – the e-transparency mechanisms may actually deter engagement by the non-specialist, invalidating the intended legitimacy gains (Field 2017).

In terms of the transparency portal hosted on the Europa website, Commission officials acknowledge it does not add any new transparency systems, rather it acts as a ‘one stop shop’, allowing users to view pre-existing e-transparency tools from a single access point. As such, evaluating the impact of this portal illustrates the difficulty of trying to capture the effectiveness of e-transparency systems through a single conceptual lens.

It was striking how often MEPs favorably compared the EP’s e-transparency processes to those at the Commission. This would seem to indicate that, despite an increase in both formal and informal ties operating at the institutional level (Egeberg et al., 2014), some inter-institutional enmity remains among the individual actors involved. Overall, MEPs overwhelmingly saw e-transparency’s principal function as enhancing and rebuilding trust in the EU in general and in the EP in particular.

Legislative transparency is a controversial topic in any political system, where researchers' appreciation of its benefits and disadvantages varies in making decision makers' records publicly available. In the context of the Council of the European Union, the records of Governments' decisions have been publicly available for some time, but these general documents have been insufficient in providing details on the content of the proposed policies and the individual positions of Council members on these proposals. Although there has been this evolution in the trend towards greater transparency in the Council, this does not necessarily mean that there is a direct correlation between transparency and the efficiency of the Council's decision-making process.

In fact, some research suggests that transparency may reduce the efficiency of decision-making, as it can complicate and slow processes as a result of increased public debate and debate. However, transparency can also promote democracy and accountability, as the public can demand more details of decision-making processes and leaders' positions.

Through a detailed study of the impact of legislative transparency, we can understand how to improve this process to achieve the ideal balance between transparency and the efficiency of decisions in the EU. It is important that we identify best practices and policies that can help enhance the effectiveness of transparency without negatively affecting the functioning of the Council's decision-making and operational processes and, ultimately, support democracy and accountability in the EU.

Indeed, the topic of legislative transparency in the European Union is a contentious one that provokes many debates and analyses in political and academic circles. Academic research has shown mixed results on the benefits and disadvantages of making the political records of EU decision makers public. Although the records of Governments' decisions had been publicly available for some time, there had been a lack of complete information on the policy content of the proposal adopted, as well as on the positions of individual legislators on those proposals.

However, the EU is currently seeing a general trend towards increased transparency in its operations, including the inclusion of more information in the public records of EU enterprises. However, it must be emphasized that making legislative records public does not come as a direct trade-off with the efficiency of policy processes. While some studies have concluded that transparency may reduce the efficiency of decision-making, others see it as contributing to its improvement.

A model applied by some researchers shows how public access to EU legislative records can contribute to overcoming incomplete information problems, which can reduce the risk of negotiation failure and increase the efficiency of decision-making. Research also suggests that electronic transparency, based on the use of ICT, can contribute to enhancing transparency and improving EU decision-making processes.

Although there are challenges to the implementation of the European Union's electronic transparency tools, such as the lack of end-users of these tools and the need for an independent control framework, efforts in this direction are a positive step towards enhancing transparency and accountability in the European Union. This reflects the growing interest in promoting the principles of democracy and transparency in this complex political context (Field 2017).

Al Bara'a Al Zu'bi